# Trump Everywhere
Trump, Trump everywhere. WTF? Silus Gaming World, grift by Tumpp, lies, and liars.
His followers embrace indecency.
Clap when he defames heroes, lies, steals.

## The New American Hustle
Trump Is Changing Corruption—and Making It More Dangerous
Whether he is launching cryptocurrency schemes or accepting a Qatari jumbo jet or issuing pardons for the relatives of major donors, Donald Trump has drawn frequent accusations of corruption in the early months of his second term as U.S. president. Each instance of corruption raises critical concerns about misused authority, undemocratic governance, or foreign influence. But larger trends in corruption are notoriously difficult to assess. Corruption is difficult to define clearly and impossible to measure directly, since it usually happens in secret. Some corruption is legal, some is not. Some of it originates in the public sector, some in the private sector, and some in the gray areas in between.

Until recently, the United States, like most other market democracies, was generally regarded as not suffering unduly from corruption. Measures such as the 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. citizens and businesses from bribing foreign officials (and whose enforcement the Trump administration has announced plans to scale back), made Washington a global leader in anticorruption. Yet amid questions about potential ethical standards violations on the U.S. Supreme Court, the increased influence of special interests in U.S. politics, and financial scandals involving several members of Congress, that good reputation was slipping even before Trump took office for the second time. In the advocacy group Transparency International’s 2014 Corruption Perception Index—not a measure of corruption itself, but a barometer of how experts and businesspeople perceive a country’s corruption level—the United States tied (with Barbados, Hong Kong, and Ireland) for 17th cleanest out of 173 countries and territories, with a score of 74 out of 100 (where 100 indicates a perception of being corruption-free). By 2024, the United States had dropped down the rankings. With a score of just 65, it tied with the Bahamas for 28th place. 

But the most worrisome development is not any individual decision or a change in the frequency of corruption—which, after all, remains unknowable. It is, instead, a shift in the type of corruption visible at the highest level of the U.S. government. At a moment when the United States’ institutional guardrails are eroding, the Trump administration has embraced a style of governance in which power flows directly from a single leader, creating opportunities for personal deals to drive official decisions. That sort of corruption threatens free political and economic processes and can, eventually, become integral to the way the entire system functions—making it highly resistant to reform.

## SYNDROMES OF CORRUPTION
In its most basic definition, corruption is the abuse of public roles and resources for private benefit. But any definition leaves considerable room to dispute a given practice as corrupt, and manifestations of corruption vary widely. It makes little sense to suggest that corruption in Denmark, a perennially high-ranking country on the Transparency International scale, is the same as corruption in, say, Cameroon, which ranks much lower, and that Cameroon simply has more of it. Societies and political systems are built differently, with different enablers of and restraints on corrupt practices. Yet it is possible to categorize the sources of corruption into four types: influence markets, elite cartels, oligarchs and clans, and official moguls. The categories are not fixed, and there is plenty of variation among and within countries where they operate. But they correspond to meaningful differences in how countries operate. Some forms of corruption enable violence, whereas others may be an alternative to it. Some severely disrupt economic and political development, whereas others strengthen alliances among elites that can facilitate rapid growth. Some involve ceding influence over specific decisions, whereas others amount to the wholesale capture of the state.

Historically, corruption in the United States has primarily happened within an influence market—a system in which political influence and access are tradeable commodities. This form of corruption is typically found in societies with mature economies and open politics. Strong institutions prevent state capture but also make influence worth paying for; shaping a government decision is only valuable if it is likely to be implemented. In the United States, lobbying and most campaign contributions are legal, protected by courts’ interpretation of the First Amendment. Countries such as Bulgaria, Portugal, and Slovakia do not place legal restrictions on lobbying, either. Many others maintain lobbying registers to improve transparency; some (such as Denmark, Germany, and Sweden) require groups to register and some, such as Israel, do not. Because all these systems accommodate well-funded organized interests, outright bribery is often unnecessary. But legal corruption is still corruption, for monied interests can crowd citizens out of decisions that affect their lives. One outcome can be regulatory capture, in which corporations, by contributing to the campaigns of legislators, gain influence over the very people who write the policies affecting their industries and oversee the agencies that enforce regulations. Public resentment of such activities can fuel populist grievances and help antisystem political parties gain ground.

In countries with only moderately strong institutions, which are often in the process of liberalizing or reforming, a different type of corruption may emerge: the elite cartel. Networks of powerful actors from the business, military, political, and media sectors collude to shape government agendas behind the scenes and share the proceeds of their corruption. In South Korea, for example, the presidency has frequently been a clearing-house for large payments from chaebols (family-dominated conglomerates). In Italy, political parties ostensibly compete with one another but in practice often work in coalitions or collude to dole out public works contracts and patronage jobs. And in Argentina, alliances among business leaders, state governors, and political operatives have at various times engaged in vote buying, profited from nationalization or privatization schemes, and benefited from currency manipulation. Elite cartels typically eliminate political and economic competitors and can produce sufficient stability to attract investment. But that stability persists only until it doesn’t; complex, ad hoc elite coalitions can perform poorly during crises or even trigger them. In Italy, the Tangentopoli (“bribe city”) scandal in the 1990s led to the collapse of the country’s entire party system. In South Korea, chaebols had a long-standing practice of making major payments to the country’s presidents to secure favorable lending terms and thus lock up significant credit and investment for themselves; when the 1997 Asian financial crisis hit, large numbers of nonperforming loans hobbled the banking sector, worsened currency depreciation, and accelerated stock market declines.

A less stable and more disruptive form of elite corruption emerges in places that have very weak institutions and that are undergoing rapid political change. With large political and economic rewards there for the taking, oligarchs and clans grab power and wealth via bribery, privatization, manipulation of the judiciary, and sometimes violence. They compete and clash with one another to stay on top, pay off their followers, and defend their gains. Insecurity is pervasive, hindering political and economic development and intimidating civil society. Overtly criminal factions such as Mafias or drug cartels can take over policing, law and contract enforcement, and other functions that would otherwise be the job of the government. Russia fit this category in the 1990s, when oligarchs and Mafia groups seized the opportunity of post-Soviet privatization to take control of several business and government sectors. Today, oligarchs in the Philippines lead powerful political families with their own regional bases of operation; they engage in various licit and illicit enterprises, buy votes, and capture important segments of the bureaucracy. In Mexico, some regions are dominated by drug cartels whose plata o plomo (“silver or lead,” that is, take a bribe or take a bullet) practices combine bribery, extortion, and violence.

Legal corruption is still corruption.
In other countries with very weak institutions, a different mode of corruption develops: the official mogul. Politics and decision-making are dominated by a single individual, family, or junta. The accumulation and exercise of power depend on personal influence and access at this top level more than on official roles and authorities. These leaders seize corrupt benefits not only for themselves but also to reward loyalists. Any resource, such as social security funds and foreign direct investment, proceeds from mineral and energy extraction, military procurement expenditures, and development aid, may be diverted with impunity. The extensive corruption built into such a system inflicts serious damage on economic and political development, just as in a system dominated by oligarchs. But it does not lead to as much violence or insecurity, because there is little opportunity for weakened institutions and opposition groups to contest the power of the dominant leader. Corruption is not a problem within the system but a feature of the system itself.

President Vladimir Putin of Russia and President Nayib Bukele of El Salvador epitomize this type of corruption. But the power dynamic that defines it is increasingly visible in the new style of American corruption under Trump, too. Trump has turned his personal brand into business ventures, entering opaque licensing agreements with firms that sell Trump-labeled merchandise. In one case involving his official authority as president, Trump issued a pardon to the son of a major donor who had attended a fundraising event (with a $1 million entry) just a few weeks earlier—an apparent quid pro quo. Others hopeful for a pardon, meanwhile, are paying vast sums to lobbyists close to the president to plead on their behalf. Personal deal-making has become a feature of U.S. foreign relations under Trump, too. The Vietnamese government, for example, approved a $1.5 billion real estate project involving the Trump Organization and a Vietnamese firm shortly before the country was to enter trade negotiations with the U.S. administration. And Trump’s acceptance (on behalf of the U.S. government) of a Qatari jet worth hundreds of millions of dollars has raised concern that even a gift the Pentagon described as “unconditional” cannot come without implicit conditions.

The powers imbued in the U.S. presidency give Trump clear leverage. What is notable is how Trump uses the authority of his office and how his supplicants—family members, cryptocurrency investors, business partners, U.S. government officials, and foreign governments—behave toward him. Instead of using traditional institutional channels to seek explicit influence over policy, they are currying personal favor and showing fealty to the president himself. In turn, Trump is using the power of his office not only to enrich himself but to reinforce his position as sole decision-maker, pursuing a degree of personal dominance that has not been seen before in American politics.

## BAD INFLUENCE
The United States, of course, has seen its presidents tainted by corruption before. Under President Ulysses Grant in the 1870s, the Whiskey Ring scandal revealed that whiskey distillers had been evading taxes by bribing administration officials; under President Warren Harding in the 1920s, the Teapot Dome affair resulted in the conviction of a cabinet secretary for accepting bribes from oil companies. But neither episode directly involved or enriched the presidents themselves. And when more recent presidents have found themselves embroiled in scandal over abuses of power, they have faced significant pushback: Richard Nixon was forced to resign in 1974 after Watergate, and in the late 1990s Bill Clinton became the first president to face an impeachment trial in more than 130 years on charges related to his affair with Monica Lewinsky. Trump has yet to encounter such consequences in his second administration. If anything, his blurring of the lines between official decision-making and personal deals has enhanced his clout and weakened his critics.

Trump’s style of corruption will not transform the United States overnight. In state and local government, the system is still operating as it did before. Patronage and pay-to-play schemes that have nothing to do with Trump will still unfold at county courthouses, and some state legislators will still gratefully receive political contributions from corporations, such as those the fracking industry has doled out in Pennsylvania. The United States’ economy and political system are too large and diverse to surrender quickly to the personal domination of a president. Moreover, the main players in U.S. influence markets may resist changes to a system that serves them well. By carefully maintaining their long-standing relationships with legislators and regulatory agencies, the big-money donors, lobbyists, labor unions, and major corporations that many Americans see as corrupt could keep an even more pernicious form of corruption in check.

Trump is using the power of his office to reinforce his position as sole decision-maker.
But the United Sates could conceivably become an illiberal democracy or something akin to what the political scientists Steven Levitsky and Lucan Ahmad Way have termed a “competitive authoritarian” state. The country has already begun drifting in this direction: the administration’s efforts to intimidate universities, law firms, and media organizations are first steps toward weakening civil society and undermining the pluralism and open debate that are essential for liberal democracy. In time, the United States could come to resemble, for example, Hungary under Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Hungary has regular elections and multiple political parties, but constitutional rights and liberties have been limited and his Fidesz party has amassed significant power to determine the outcome of elections. The leader holds immense personal authority, enabling him to sustain his rule by handing out spoils to supporters, gerrymandering parliamentary districts, rigging election counts, limiting press freedom, and diverting state resources to his party to hobble the opposition. Corruption at the top thus further undermines democracy by weakening both institutional and political restraints on centralized power.

The form of corruption Trump has displayed could have a similarly damaging effect on democratic norms and practices at home. It also exposes the United States to harmful influence from abroad. Protections against such influence are built into the country’s institutions: foreign nationals are barred from contributing to federal election campaigns, lobbying by foreign governments and political parties must be disclosed under the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act, and most other foreign interests must register their political activities under the more lenient 1995 Lobbying Disclosure Act. But Trump does not operate through institutional channels. Personal wheeling and dealing is outside the bounds of anticorruption regulation. And strongmen who wield power in similar ways—leaders such as Orban, Putin, or North Korea’s Kim Jong Un—recognize Trump’s governing style. They will not be shy about taking advantage, offering direct deals with Trump (such as by making investments in his cryptocurrency) to secure favorable terms in diplomacy and trade, and to prevent Washington from meddling in their countries or what they consider to be their spheres of influence.

## NO EASY FIX
When corruption becomes an integral part of the way a political leader makes decisions—or grants favors and stifles opponents to secure his grip on power—most familiar reform tactics, which are often narrowly focused on combating bribery, are insufficient to contain it. Passing laws, improving administrative systems, and mobilizing public rallies accomplish little if the law and administrative control are in the hands of corrupt actors, and civil society and opposition forces are ineffective. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a leader in international anticorruption efforts, even canceled its working group on bribery’s long-planned mission to Hungary in 2024—the first time it has taken such a step—because the Orban government had consistently failed to act on earlier OECD recommendations. And in places where a corrupt, personalist ruler has fully consolidated power, confronting corruption means confronting the regime itself. That attempt can meet a brutal end, as in the cases of the Chinese student protesters killed in Tiananmen Square in 1989 or the Russian opposition politician and anticorruption activist Alexei Navalny, who died in a Siberian prison last year.

The United States is far from reaching that point, but the guardrails meant to check corruption and the excessive concentration of power are weakening. Business interests and culture warriors are increasingly trading campaign contributions and “dark money,” the political funds spent by super PACs that do not need to disclose their contributors, for influence over policy and policy implementation related to taxation, the environment, judicial nominations, and more. Supreme Court decisions have lifted restrictions on corporate donations to political campaigns; sharply limited the legal boundaries of what constitutes an “official act” by an elected official in federal bribery statutes (ruling in the case of former Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell that calling other politicians and hosting events at the governor’s mansion were not, in fact, “official acts” taken in support of a businessman who had previously given him gifts); and deemed that bribes paid to elected officials are mere “gratuities” and legal, if delivered after an official decision has been made. International bribery, moreover, will likely proliferate if the government ceases to enforce parts of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Reversing these changes might reduce the potency of the United States’ influence markets, but they will not resolve the toxic combination of personal power, intimidation, and cult-like loyalties that enable the kind of corruption Trump is now embracing.

A leader can only wield personal authority as Trump does in the absence of strong political constraints. Such checks are built into the U.S. Constitution; the Foreign Emoluments Clause, for example, prohibits federal officials from receiving gifts or compensation from any other government or ruler without congressional consent, and the Domestic Emoluments Clause prohibits presidents from receiving any compensation beyond their fixed salary from the federal government or any U.S. state. But for constitutional restrictions to mean anything, the legislative and judicial branches must defend and enforce them. So far, however, Trump’s allies in Congress have almost wholly abdicated this role, and although lower courts have issued injunctions against some of the administration’s actions and policies, the Supreme Court has repeatedly found ways to expand executive power.

This problem is fundamentally a political one. Because top-level corruption and the erosion of democratic constraints are mutually reinforcing, pushing back on the misuse of presidential authority will become only more difficult as time goes on. It is up to legislative and judicial leaders, executive agencies, state and local governments, and private institutions to resist Trump’s pressure tactics. The targets of Trump’s lawsuits must vigorously defend themselves, universities must defy demands that they cease programs Trump dislikes, and law firms must refuse to provide complimentary legal services to Trump’s cronies and favored causes. What is happening today in the United States has clear elements of tragedy, but it is not yet a one-man show.


